docs: ContractDeleteTransaction endpoint (#499)
hiero-ledger/hiero-sdk-tck: docs/test-specifications/contract-service/ContractDeleteTransaction.md

**ContractDelete Protobuf:**

- [https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-consensus-node/blob/main/hapi/hedera-protobuf-java-api/src/main/proto/services/contract_delete.proto](https://github.com/hiero-ledger/hiero-consensus-node/blob/main/hapi/hedera-protobuf-java-api/src/main/proto/services/contract_delete.proto)

**Mirror Node APIs:**

- Contract info: [https://mainnet.mirrornode.hedera.com/api/v1/docs/#/contracts/getContract](https://mainnet.mirrornode.hedera.com/api/v1/docs/#/contracts/getContract)
- Transaction records: [https://mainnet.mirrornode.hedera.com/api/v1/docs/#/transactions/getTransactions](https://mainnet.mirrornode.hedera.com/api/v1/docs/#/transactions/getTransactions)

---

## JSON-RPC API Endpoint Documentation

### Method Name

`deleteContract`

### Input Parameters

| Parameter Name          | Type                                                    | Required/Optional | Description/Notes                                                                |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | contractId              | string                                                  | required          | The ID of the contract to be deleted.                                            |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| contractId              | string                                                  | optional          | The ID of the contract to be deleted.                                            |
```

| transferAccountId       | string                                                  | optional          | The account ID to receive the remaining HBAR balance from the deleted contract.  |

> | transferContractId      | string                                                  | optional          | The contract ID to receive the remaining HBAR balance from the deleted contract. |

Reviewer: `permanentRemoval` field is missing

### Output Parameters

| Parameter Name | Type   | Description/Notes                                      |
| -------------- | ------ | ------------------------------------------------------ |
| status         | string | Hedera network response code from `TransactionReceipt` |

---

## Property Tests

### **Contract ID**

- The unique identifier of the smart contract to be deleted. This field is required for the transaction to proceed. The smart contract must have an `adminKey` set, and the corresponding private key must sign the transaction.

| Test no | Name                                                                             | Input                                                                                 | Expected Response                                                                      | Implemented (Y/N) |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |

> | 1       | Delete a valid contract with an `adminKey`                                       | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>] | Transaction succeeds, `ContractInfoQuery` for the contract returns `CONTRACT_DELETED`. | N                 |

Reviewer: add test where we do not set the contract id

| 2       | Attempt to delete a contract with a `ContractId` that does not exist             | contractId="0.0.9999999"                                                              | Fails with `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID`.                                                      | N                 |
| 3       | Attempt to delete a contract that has no `adminKey` set                          | contractId=<IMMUTABLE_CONTRACT_ID>                                                    | Fails with `MODIFYING_IMMUTABLE_CONTRACT`.                                             | N                 |
| 4       | Attempt to delete a contract with a deleted `ContractId`                         | contractId=<DELETED_CONTRACT_ID>                                                      | Fails with `CONTRACT_DELETED`.                                                         | N                 |
| 5       | Attempt to delete a contract with a malformed `ContractId`                       | contractId="invalid-id"                                                               | Fails with an SDK internal error.                                                      | N                 |

> | 6       | Delete a contract where the `adminKey` is an empty `KeyList`                     | contractId=<CONTRACT_WITH_EMPTY_KEYLIST_ADMIN_KEY>                                    | Fails with `MODIFYING_IMMUTABLE_CONTRACT`.                                             | N                 |

Reviewer: is it even possible to create contract with empty keylist admin key?

| 4       | Attempt to delete a contract with a non-existent `transferAccountId`                                              | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId="0.0.9999999", commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>]                                                | Fails with `INVALID_TRANSFER_ACCOUNT_ID`.                                                          | N                 |
| 5       | Attempt to delete a contract with a non-existent `transferContractId`                                             | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferContractId="0.0.9999999", commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>]                                               | Fails with `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID`.                                                                  | N                 |

> | 6       | Attempt to delete a contract with a deleted `transferAccountId`                                                   | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId=<DELETED_ACCOUNT_ID>, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>]                                         | Fails with `OBTAINER_DOES_NOT_EXIST`.                                                              | N                 |

Reviewer: add this same test but with transferConttactID

| 7       | Delete a contract where the `transferAccountId` has `receiver_sig_required` set but the transaction is not signed | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId=<ACCOUNT_WITH_RECEIVER_SIG_REQUIRED>, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>]                         | Fails with `INVALID_SIGNATURE`.                                                                    | N                 |
| 8       | Delete a contract where the `transferAccountId` has `receiver_sig_required` set and the transaction is signed     | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId=<ACCOUNT_WITH_RECEIVER_SIG_REQUIRED>, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>, <RECEIVER_PRIVATE_KEY>] | Transaction succeeds, `AccountInfoQuery` for `transferAccountId` shows an increased balance.       | N                 |

> | 9       | Attempt to delete a contract with both `transferAccountId` and `transferContractId` set                           | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId=<VALID_ACCOUNT_ID>, transferContractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>]   | Fails with `TRANSFER_ACCOUNT_OR_CONTRACT_ID_REQUIRED` or similar response, as only one can be set. | N                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 9       | Attempt to delete a contract with both `transferAccountId` and `transferContractId` set                           | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId=<VALID_ACCOUNT_ID>, transferContractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>]   | Transaction succeeds and transfers the HBAR to the last field that was set. | N                 |
```

---

### **Permanent Removal (Reserved Field)**

- The `permanent_removal` field is for internal system use only and should never be set in a user-initiated transaction.

| Test no | Name                                                                | Input                                                                                                                                                | Expected Response                                          | Implemented (Y/N) |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| 1       | Attempt to set `permanent_removal` to `true` in a user transaction  | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId=<VALID_ACCOUNT_ID>, permanent_removal=true, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>]  | Fails with `PERMANENT_REMOVAL_REQUIRES_SYSTEM_INITIATION`. | N                 |

> | 2       | Attempt to set `permanent_removal` to `false` in a user transaction | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId=<VALID_ACCOUNT_ID>, permanent_removal=false, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>] | Fails with `PERMANENT_REMOVAL_REQUIRES_SYSTEM_INITIATION`. | N                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2       | Attempt to set `permanent_removal` to `false` in a user transaction | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, transferAccountId=<VALID_ACCOUNT_ID>, permanent_removal=false, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>] | Transaction succeeds. | N                 |
```

---

## Property Tests

### **Contract ID**

- The unique identifier of the smart contract to be deleted. This field is required for the transaction to proceed. The smart contract must have an `adminKey` set, and the corresponding private key must sign the transaction.

| Test no | Name                                                                             | Input                                                                                 | Expected Response                                                                      | Implemented (Y/N) |
| ------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| 1       | Delete a valid contract with an `adminKey`                                       | contractId=<VALID_CONTRACT_ID>, commonTransactionParams.signers=[<ADMIN_PRIVATE_KEY>] | Transaction succeeds, `ContractInfoQuery` for the contract returns `CONTRACT_DELETED`. | N                 |

> | 2       | Delete a contract with empty object                                              | ""                                                                                    | Fails with `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID`.                                                      | N                 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| 2       | Delete a contract with no contract id                                              |                                                                                    | Fails with `INVALID_CONTRACT_ID`.                                                      | N                 |
```
